Vibe coders everywhere are hitting a
wall. They know how to vibe code. They
know how to build stuff. We can use
Lovable. We can use really any textbased
tool to build stuff now. And so folks
are getting into Claw. They're getting
into Claude Code. They're getting into
codecs. They're getting into shipping
artifacts through chat GPT. They're
getting into Replet. I could keep naming
tools for half an hour. The point is
that you are shipping software based on
your text. And that was the story of
2025. But so many vibe coders are coming
to me now and saying I feel like I'm
missing a set of skills. I feel like I
don't have the skills for the agentic
world. Like agents caught up and now I
don't know how to build software again
in 2026 because vibe coding isn't how
you do it. It's like vibe agenting but
that's not a word. How do you build
software with agents? How do I take my
VIP coding skills and transfer them? I'm
not a software engineer. This video is
for you. If you're someone who described
what you wanted and AI built it and you
shipped it, maybe you have real
customers now and maybe things are
starting to break in ways that better
prompting alone can't fix. Maybe you
have agents ignoring your instructions.
Maybe you have hours of work lost to a
single bad change. Maybe you've hit the
wall between building a product with AI
and running one. And almost nobody is
talking about the specific skills that
get you over that hump. This is all
about that. This is not about learning
to code. That is not a skill we're
really teaching in 2026 in the same way
anymore. This is a video about the skill
of learning to manage the agent that
codes for you. That is the skill of
2026. And yes, you really can do
anything non-technical if you can get an
agent to code for you. That is why
people are calling cloud code AGI. That
is why OpenAI is seeing rapid adoption
with codecs. That is why even Google
went out and shipped their Google Docs
to the command line interface recently.
And before you wonder, is this a real
concern? Like, do I have to worry about
managing my agents? I will point out to
you that SummerU, a meta security
researcher, ended up in trouble because
OpenClaw accidentally deleted a large
portion of her email inbox in February
2026. Despite explicit instructions to
confirm before acting, the agent decided
to speedrun deleting emails. and that
continued after she sent commands to
stop and she described having to run to
the Mac Mini and unplug it to save even
a part of her email archive. Agents are
not as easy as vibe coding and you need
to think differently when you manage
agents. So, let's get into it. The first
thing to realize is that your vibe
coding tool may have become agentic when
you weren't looking. So, Claude Code,
Cursor, OpenAI's Codeex, GitHub Copilot,
they don't just suggest code, they go
ahead and execute it. They read your
files. They make changes directly. They
run commands. They install things. They
iterate against their own mistakes. If
you give a task and the agent works
autonomously for a long time for 10, 20,
30, 40 or 56 minutes as Chad GPT 5.4 did
during a recent eval I ran, then you are
working with an agent and you have to
act like that. You have to think like
that. You have to work differently than
when you vibe coded. And so when you ask
an agent to add a feature that lets
customers leave reviews, that agent is
not just going to look at one block of
code and hand you a block of code. You
might wonder, "What's the concrete
difference? I get the feature either
way." Here's the difference. In 2025,
when you ask an agent to add a feature
that lets customers leave reviews, so
often you would get a single block of
code from these different tools. Now,
the agent is going to read your
database. It's going to create new
tables. It's going to build the
interface. It's going to add form
validation. And it's going to save the
results. At least eight steps, maybe
more, depending on how the agent designs
the system. And if step four goes wrong,
steps five through eight make it worse.
I want to be really clear here. Vibe
coding was a lot about prompting. Agent
management is not first a prompting
problem. It's a supervision problem. And
the difference between vibe coders who
keep shipping and the ones who hit a
wall is exactly this shift from
describing what you want to managing the
thing that builds it. And you don't have
to become an engineer. You just need to
become a competent manager of an
engineer with a short-term memory that
happens to be AI. Let me give you an
analogy. If you're a general contractor
working on a house, you may not be
laying the brick for that house, but you
know what a straight wall looks like.
you know which walls are loadbearing and
you know that you shouldn't tear out the
plumbing without turning off the water.
I want to give you those kinds of
skills. Think of the work you're doing
with agents in 2026 as now you're a
general contractor and you're managing a
team of agents building software. What
are the skills you need to be an
effective manager? I'm going to give you
specific ones, five of them, and none of
them require writing code. Skill number
one is as old as 1990s video games. You
have to find your save point in the
game. Say your agent broke something
last week and you couldn't get back to
the version that worked. Maybe it was
the login page. Maybe it was the
checkout flow. You described the
problem. It was a big problem because
agents can tackle big problems now, not
like 2025. And the agent did try to fix
it, but it made it worse this time. And
now you're 3 hours deep in a
conversation that's going in circles.
The version from before the agent
touched anything, you don't know where
it went. It looks like the agent
overwrote it. This is one of the most
common disasters in VI coding in 2026.
And it has a solution that every single
developer uses. Version control. Think
of it as save points in a video game.
Every time your project is in a working
state, save a snapshot. That snapshot is
permanent. No matter what your agent
does next, no matter one command and
you're back to the version that worked.
This is why a tool called Git matters
for Vibe Coders in 2026. It's not a new
tool. It's just how developers do this.
And yes, if you're wondering, oh my
gosh, I'm taking notes. How do I
remember all this? There's a whole guide
on the Substack. I'll get you all set
up. Don't worry. Even if you've never
coded now, learning the five or six
things you actually need to do and get.
You can head over to the Substack to do
this or honestly, you can read this
transcript to Chad GPT or Claude and
tell them to explain it to you. It's not
that difficult and I won't take all
afternoon on it. What I am going to tell
you is that the habit of saving a
snapshot is critical and it is
absolutely worth a couple of hours or an
hour or 20 minutes depending on your
technical competency to learn what git
is and figure out how to use it so you
can save a snapshot. You have got to use
a tool that gives you a save point and
yes it exists and I am asking you if you
are working on something make this a
priority ahead of the next feature
request you want to build before your
next change please. I am trying to save
working software here. I do not want you
to go through the pain of losing a
production database, which is what I
heard a senior developer tell me that
happened when they ordered their agent
to make a seemingly minor change and
there was no versioning and it's gone.
Now, they were able to recover. That's
fine. But the point is you don't want to
be in those shoes. Skill two, learn when
to start fresh. This is especially
important with agents. Let's say your
agent is brilliant for the first 20
minutes or 40 minutes or hour of the
project. It seems to understand things.
It follows your instructions. It makes
the right changes and then somewhere
around message 30, it just starts
ignoring things you've told it three
times. It rewrites code it already
wrote. It introduces bugs into features
that were working. It feels like it
forgot everything. Well, it did.
Literally, agents have a fixed amount of
text. They have a context window.
Everything you've said, everything it's
said, every file it's read, every error
message takes up space. And when that
space fills up, older information gets
compressed or dropped. And your
instructions from the beginning of the
conversation, well, they're gone now.
The architecture understood an hour ago,
it's also fuzzy. There are two fixes.
There is an advanced mode and there's a
simple mode. And I'm going to describe
both very, very clearly. We'll give you
a guide for both that's very simple. It
will depend on you what you want to do.
The simplest fix is to start fresh. But
here's the thing. Starting fresh,
everyone understands how to do that. You
just start it over again. Sometimes the
job is so big you're going to run into
this issue again. And then you need the
advanced fix. And the advanced fix is to
set up proper infrastructure for your AI
agent, which means you have to have a
workflow file where the agent knows what
it's doing and has logged that as a
workflow. A planning file potentially, a
context file where the agent can read
the context of what it's trying to do
when it reinstantiates when it wakes
back up if you start a fresh run, and a
task list that the agent has to burn
down. Are you getting the idea?
Basically, you need to build a scaffold
of documents around the agent so that if
the agent is killed, if the agent has
too much context, it can't work anymore
and you have to restart it. You can look
at the documents that reflect the
process that happened and start again at
that point. It's sort of like having a
save point not for software, but for the
agent run, the agent build. If your
agent is 65% built, you'll want to pick
up at the 65% build part if you can. And
that takes some preparation and I'll
cover in the substack, but it's totally
worth it because it means you can build
much much bigger things. This is a
simplified version of the really fancy
stuff that lets teams like Cursor and
Enthropic code for weeks. And now we're
getting to skill number three, and it
ties right into skill number two. Your
agent needs standing orders. Remember
how I told you that you needed kind of a
dock or something in the advanced fix
for the agent? just running out of
context and the docs would help the
agent keep track of things. One of those
docs that you absolutely have to have is
what I call standing orders. Let's say
you've told your agent always use dark
mode for the interface as many times as
you can think of and it keeps defaulting
to light mode. You've explained your
naming conventions. It ignores them.
Every session seems to start from zero.
Well, every major AI coding tool now
supports something called a rules file.
It's a simple text document in your
project folder that the agent reads at
the start of every single session. Think
of it as your employee handbook. It
tells the agent, "Here's what this
product is. Here's how we do things
around here, and here are the three
things you keep getting wrong that I
need you to stop doing." And yes, I I
also use that tone when I write my
version. So, Claude Code calls this
claw.markdown. Cursor has its own
format. There's also a universal
standard called agents.mmarkdown that
works across most tools. And the name
doesn't really matter. the concept does.
You need to have persistent instructions
that survive across conversations. You
know, the counterintuitive part about
this is how you actually build it. You
might think you sit down and there's a
ray of light and you write a perfect
rules file, but it doesn't work that
way. You don't do that. You start with
almost nothing. You just start with,
hey, this is what the product is. This
is what it's built with and maybe a few
lines about things you've noticed. It's
sort of messy. Then every time your
agent does something wrong, you add a
line to prevent it. Over a few weeks,
the file becomes a very precise
reflection of exactly what your
particular project needs. And over a
period of time, as it gets to be a
longer file, you're going to figure out
which lines are loadbearing, which lines
matter if you drop them versus which
lines don't. And so you can start to
keep the file clean, too. Make sure that
every line earns its keep. Ideally, you
want to be under 200 lines, maybe even
under a 100 lines, because the rules
file does compete for the same memory
all that conversation and work uses. So,
if you get to a massive rules file that
eats your agents ability to focus, it's
kind of counterproductive. I will give
you some specific examples over on the
Substack, or frankly, you can Google
around and find them. Skill number four
is small bets. Let's say you want a big
project done. Let's say you're asking
your agent to redesign the order system
for your product and you're a vibe coder
and so you're saying do it all at once
and they touched every file in the
project and half of the features that
went along with it broke because you
know what it used to work and now it
doesn't. You have no idea which changes
caused which problems because the agent
changed so many things at once. When one
sweeping operation can affect
everything, there's no way to isolate
what's wrong. The concept we're talking
about here is blast radius, which is
what it sounds like. It's how much of
your project a single change could
affect. And here's the principle that
makes AI assisted building for vibe
coders in 2026 who are using agents
actually feel safe. Give your AI agent a
really, really well-defined, focused
task. Do not try to give it a large
sweeping change unless you are committed
to a really, really good set of eval
really good agent harness. And if you
don't know what those words mean, then
that is not for you. This is not because
the AI is not smart enough to do big
things, it is. It's because complex
changes compound errors and you need
better and better systems thinking to
prevent those errors before they happen.
And that compounds nonlinearly or
exponentially, the bigger the change is.
So step four of a 12stage change goes
wrong. Steps 5 to 12 make it worse. But
now imagine it's a 100 stage change. And
look at how bad it's going to get. So
before giving your agent a task, ask a
question. How big is this? If it's
small, if it's changing a color, if it's
fixing a form, just get it done. It
probably won't even take an agentic
coding harness or memory or docs or
anything. They're just going to do it.
If it's medium, like adding a whole new
feature, you may want to tell the agent
to plan it into multiple features and
ask the agent to execute it in pieces
and validate completeness and hit a save
point before going to the next feature.
Because if you're verifying and saving
along the way, you're less likely to
regret your choices. And yes, this is
our choices as people. I know we like to
blame the agents, but we're the ones who
are not managing them well. And this is
my guide. If you've never managed agents
before, this is going to help. And by
the way, if you think I'm not a vibe
coder, I just, you know, work with
Claude for a living. Claude is an agent
now. These are also things that help
with stuff like powerpoints. I don't
know how many times I have sat there and
said, "Oh, you're trying to generate a
100 slide PowerPoint at once." Same
principle here. It's not a small bet.
Maybe we should ask Claude to just do 15
slides at a time. And it works. Small
bets. Skill number five is about
learning the questions your agent will
never ask. All of the stuff I've talked
about in the last four skills is about
managing your agent directly. This skill
is about managing what your agent builds
because there's a category of dangerous
problems your agent is never going to
raise on its own and that frankly vibe
coding tools of 2025 were too weak to
deal with and so this is a new kind of
problem for people who have been vibe
coding. Let's say your app works great
when you test it, right? You've gotten a
few orders, everything is loading
quickly, but your customers will end up
submitting empty forms and clicking the
buy button multiple times and pasting
emojis into fields that expect numbers
and generally using it like humans. The
problem is this, the gap between it
works for me and it really works for my
customers who use it in all of the wild
and woolly ways that humans use apps.
That's where products go to die in that
chasm in between. I cannot tell you how
many times I've had a developer tell me,
"Well, it works on my machine." Well,
that's not the point. So, here's how to
manage that with agents. You have three
things that you need to demand in your
files and in conversation. They're
basically questions that your agent will
not think of without prompting. And this
is specifically for vibe coders trying
to build apps. Number one, when
something fails, you should instruct an
agent to show a message, not a blank
screen. Agents don't think to ask if the
user needs to see something when there's
a failure. They won't assume that.
Payments can get declined. Servers can
go down. Internet connections can drop.
If your app doesn't handle these
gracefully, your customer sees like a
white page or a just a crash screen.
Tell your agent every time the app
communicates with a server. It has to
handle failure with a very clear and
friendly message, never a blank screen.
Number two, please keep your customers
data safe. Your agent, again, may not
assume that they need to do that, but
it's critically important, especially if
you're dealing with paying customers on
your app. Frankly, it's really important
if you're dealing with your kids or your
data on your app. Like, people who build
family apps need to think about this,
too. So, how do you protect customer
data? You actually give the agent the
instruction to look into rowle security.
It's a kind of security where you're
looking at the security of every single
row in the database. I explain a lot
more about it in the Substack post
today, but the agent will know what that
means if you say it because it's a very
common software term. What you really
want is to say with rowle security that
each customer can only see their own
data. You don't want any ad mixture
between rows in the database. Then I
have said this, but so many other people
have said this. Never ever ever ever
paste your secret keys into a chat with
AI. Please do not do this if you don't
know what a secret key is. It is
something that is usually labeled secret
key that is part of establishing secure
connections with data. If you take that
and it's a lengthy like 30 40 50digit
hash string with numbers and letters and
you think it's fine and you just stick
it into the chat and say please develop
with this you are running the risk of a
database leak. It is a very risky thing
to do. There are lots of other ways to
deal with it. Many people have written
guides. Yes, it is in my guide, too, but
it's not the only place. You need to
handle your secrets responsibly. And
last, but not least, in your rules file
for your agent, please, please, please
add a rule that says never, ever log
customer emails or payment information
because you don't want to be doing that.
You want to be in a world where payment
is handled via like Stripe or API or
something and you're not touching it.
You want to be in a world where customer
emails are not something you have to
keep in a database securely and worry
about whether or not you encrypted them
well enough. You want to be in a world
where you have like a sign-in with
Google and it's just done. Third thing,
your agent won't ask. Your agent won't
ask about growth. You should tell your
agent early what your growth
expectations for whatever you're
building are because sometimes the agent
overengineers things and says your
family app needs to support thousands of
users. And sometimes your agent
undergineers things and thinks to
itself, eh, I don't need to do this
critical security feature because they
told me they have 300 users currently.
If you expect your app to eventually get
to a serious size, you should be telling
that expectation to your agent because
you will help it to build accordingly.
Now, I would advise you here to get
deeper on technical details than you
might think you need to. It is worth
getting a response from the agent,
getting it explained like you're in high
school by chatting with Chad GPT so you
understand the technical term and then
coming back and making an intelligent
decision. You don't want to leave
scaling to chance. The key thing to do
is to set the expectation before the
agent builds something so that the agent
knows is it going to be for 10 users or
is it going to be for 10,000. Finally,
part of being good is knowing where to
stop. Even in an agentic coding
environment, please bring in a
professional engineer when things start
to get serious. Examples of things
getting serious. If you're handling
payments beyond basic checkouts for
goods and services, if you're dealing
with medical data, if you're dealing
with children's data, if you're dealing
with legal compliance, when your app is
getting slow under real usage and you
don't know why, when your codebase has
gotten so messy the agent is struggling
with it and you don't know why. This
isn't a failure. If a non-engineer can
build a product and maybe get real
customers and then bring in an engineer
to harden it for scale, you've already
done something most startups never
manage to do. You've proved the idea
works before spending serious money on
real engineering. And yes, real
engineering still has a place even in
the era of agentic development. A lot of
my videos say that, so I hope that's not
a surprise. Ultimately, the wall you are
facing, if you're transitioning from
vibe coding and you're wondering, how do
I work with AI agents appropriately?
That wall is not made of code. That wall
is not something that you can't get
through if you're not an engineer. I've
outlined these skills because they
really are management skills. Think of
yourself again as a general contractor.
You're constructing that house. You need
to have safe points for the house where
you can say, "Okay, the beam was put on
wrong." That's not going to work. You
need the ability to dig the foundation
aresh if it's not going well. You need
the ability to have standing
instructions written clearly at the work
site so people know what to do. You need
the ability to work in small incremental
features so you can say just do the
counters today. And you need the ability
to look around corners and ask the
questions nobody on the work site is
asking. All of these are management
skills. You're just applying them to
agents. In other words, the wall between
building with agents and just vibe
coding is management skills. And they
are habits that you can practice. And if
you start to practice them, a lot of
what makes agents feel mysterious is
going to evaporate. It's going to
disappear because what we built in 2025
was good for the agents and the skills
and the models of 2025. But the agents
are now a hundred times more powerful.
And a lot of the work we did on
prompting is now necessary but
insufficient for the power we're dealing
with here. And so think of what I'm
giving you as like prompting plus plus.
Yes, prompting was great. Yes, you still
need to prompt well. Not an excuse, but
you have to think much more broadly to
handle agents this powerful as someone
who's used to vibe coding. I hope that
this has been helpful and best of luck
with what you're building. I'd love to
see it. Please throw it in the comments
so we can all see it and chat about it
together.